No limitations are set for editing texts and pictures, converting PDF to Word, and splitting and merging files. Learn more >
they were still regarded HE algebraic hr.tiQn- Swiss mathematician Leonhard
Euler introduced the notation i (for imaginary) around 1777 to represent
en*neets use the notation .i instead of to cvoid confusion with the
notation i often for electrical current. Thus For example. to find a solution o:
in the above equation to obtain
10 + + — 20 = O, we 5nhstitntE
- v'iöä= '20.392 - •.Yo.3gz=2
This allows us to determine the square root oi any negative number. For
When imaginary numbers axe in the aumbel system, the resulting We can readily verify that 2 is indeed a solution ot 4- — 20 -z O. But When
Cardano trjei to solve the equation — — = O by 'his formula, his solution
d p cubie equatjom k genet.l equation
cedu&d to by Y = x
cubic, - del Feno (14651526) and by Niccolo
cubic by Sc.pLo numbers axe calted complex numbers.
Origins Complex Numbers
Ironically (and contrary to popular belief), it not the solution of a quadratic
egotiDn, such as + I = O, but g cubic eq uAtiOä With real coots thn
Cardano to •nake OF this equation jn the year 1545? In those days
Whät w
negative numbeæ were themselves suspect. and square root DE a negative aumbet
wzß doubly preposterous! Today we know that
Therefore, formu'a
We readL]y verify that 4 is ind&d a solution oi — 1 2
tried to explain had-heartedly the presence OF but ultimately dismissed the
whole enterprise being subtle it is A generation later. however
Raphael Bombel'i (1526-1573), after examining Cardanols ræuLts, proposed ac-
ceptaace of imaginary numbers o necessary vehicle that would transport the
mathematician from the real cubic equation to its rcai solution. In other words,
while we begin and end with real numbers, we scem compelled to move into an
unfuniliat world of imaginaries to complete our jonruey To taathematjcians of the
day, thls proposol seemed incredibly strange.' Vet they could not dlsmiss the idea
of imaginary numbers so exsjly becau* this concept yielded the real sokution of an
equation _ R took two more centurie fot the fun importance of complex numbers to
beu_nne evident. in the works of Euler. Gauss, and Cauchy. Still, deserves
credit for recognizing that such numbers have a role to play in algebra.
In 1799, the German mathematician Karl &iedrich Gnusss at ripc agc
OE 22, proved the fundarnentkl thcorcm oi algebra, namely that every algebraic
equation in one unknown haz a mot in the. form of number. He Showal
that every equation of the nth order has exactly n solutions (coots), no more and no Fontana (1499--1557b i
'he of the cubic
K hen showed that by usine the substitution
Complo: Numbers Country
of complex ..urtlbers can reduce the ced to a
The numbers a and b
the imaginary part, -a and (he ordinate) ot z a-re tho part and
respectively. DE z _ They are also expr«sed a-
in tbis plane all real numbers Lie on the horizontal axis, and all imhginA_ry
Note that
numbers lie on the vevtica_]
Comp!ex numbers taay also be expressed in terms of polar coordinates 9)
(see Fib B.2}, then
are the polar coordinates OF a point